docs/docs/TemplatePropertyTypes.md, before:

---
title: Template Property Types (Beta)
sidebar_position: 5
tags: [properties, templates, beta, front matter, obsidian]
---

# Template Property Types (Beta)

Native support for proper Obsidian property types in QuickAdd template front matter.

## Overview

QuickAdd now supports automatic property type formatting for template variables in front matter. Instead of converting everything to text, template variables become proper Obsidian property types: arrays become List properties, numbers become Number properties, booleans become Checkbox properties, and so on.

The goal is to make note creation easier and more intuitive. When we've reached that point, the option to disable this feature will be removed. While we're in beta, we appreciate your feedback and suggestions.

**Before:**
```yaml
authors: "John Doe, Jane Smith, Bob Wilson"  # Manual string formatting
```

**After:**
```yaml
authors:
  - John Doe
  - Jane Smith  
  - Bob Wilson
```

## Enabling the Feature

⚠️ **This is a beta feature** - enable it in settings:

1. Open **Settings → QuickAdd**
2. Toggle **"Format template variables as proper property types (Beta)"**
3. The feature is **disabled by default** for safety

## Basic Usage

### 1. Set Structured Data in Scripts

Instead of manually formatting data as strings, use native JavaScript types:

```javascript
// ✅ NEW: Use native data structures
QuickAdd.variables.authors = ["John Doe", "Jane Smith", "Bob Wilson"];
QuickAdd.variables.tags = ["research", "ai", "papers"];
QuickAdd.variables.metadata = {
    rating: 5,
    conference: "ICML",
    keywords: ["ML", "AI"]
};
QuickAdd.variables.published = true;
QuickAdd.variables.year = 2023;
QuickAdd.variables.notes = null;

// ❌ OLD: Manual string formatting (no longer needed)
// QuickAdd.variables.authors = "John Doe, Jane Smith, Bob Wilson";
```

### 2. Use in Templates

Your template syntax stays exactly the same:

```yaml
---
title: "{{VALUE:title}}"
authors: "{{VALUE:authors}}"
tags: "{{VALUE:tags}}"
metadata: "{{VALUE:metadata}}"
published: "{{VALUE:published}}"
year: "{{VALUE:year}}"
notes: "{{VALUE:notes}}"
---

# {{VALUE:title}}

Content here...
```

### 3. Get Perfect Property Types

The result is properly formatted as Obsidian property types:

```yaml
---
title: "My Research Paper"
authors:
  - John Doe
  - Jane Smith
  - Bob Wilson
tags:
  - research
  - ai
  - papers
metadata:
  rating: 5
  conference: ICML
  keywords:
    - ML
    - AI
published: true
year: 2023
notes: null
---

# My Research Paper

Content here...
```

## Supported Data Types

| JavaScript Type | Property Output | Example |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| **Array** | List property | `["a", "b"]` → `- a`<br />`- b` |
| **Empty Array** | Empty list | `[]` → `[]` |
| **Object** | Object property | `{key: "value"}` → `key: value` |
| **Empty Object** | Empty mapping | `{}` → `{}` |
| **Number** | Number literal | `42` → `42` |
| **Boolean** | Boolean literal | `true` → `true` |
| **Null** | Null literal | `null` → `null` |
| **String** | String (unchanged) | `"text"` → `text` |

### Complex Nested Structures

The feature supports deeply nested data:

```javascript
QuickAdd.variables.paper = {
    title: "Advanced Research",
    authors: ["Alice", "Bob"],
    metadata: {
        year: 2023,
        conference: "ICML",
        tags: ["ML", "AI"],
        metrics: {
            pages: 12,
            citations: null
        }
    },
    reviewed: true
};
```

Results in:

```yaml
paper:
  title: Advanced Research
  authors:
    - Alice
    - Bob
  metadata:
    year: 2023
    conference: ICML
    tags:
      - ML
      - AI
    metrics:
      pages: 12
      citations: null
  reviewed: true
```

## Real-World Examples

### Academic Papers

**Script:**
```javascript
// From Zotero or other source
const paper = {
    title: "Attention Is All You Need",
    authors: ["Ashish Vaswani", "Noam Shazeer", "Niki Parmar"],
    year: 2017,
    venue: "NIPS",
    keywords: ["attention", "transformer", "neural networks"],
    metrics: {
        citations: 50000,
        pages: [3000, 3010]
    }
};

Object.assign(QuickAdd.variables, paper);
```

**Template:**
```yaml
---
title: "{{VALUE:title}}"
authors: "{{VALUE:authors}}"
year: "{{VALUE:year}}"
venue: "{{VALUE:venue}}"
keywords: "{{VALUE:keywords}}"
metrics: "{{VALUE:metrics}}"
---

# {{VALUE:title}}

## Summary
Paper by {{VALUE:authors}} published in {{VALUE:venue}} ({{VALUE:year}}).
```

**Output:**
```yaml
---
title: Attention Is All You Need
authors:
  - Ashish Vaswani
  - Noam Shazeer
  - Niki Parmar
year: 2017
venue: NIPS
keywords:
  - attention
  - transformer
  - neural networks
metrics:
  citations: 50000
  pages:
    - 3000
    - 3010
---

# Attention Is All You Need

## Summary
Paper by Ashish Vaswani,Noam Shazeer,Niki Parmar published in NIPS (2017).
```

### Project Management

**Script:**
```javascript
QuickAdd.variables.project = {
    name: "Website Redesign",
    status: "in-progress",
    team: ["Alice", "Bob", "Carol"],
    priority: 3,
    tasks: [
        { name: "Research", complete: true },
        { name: "Design", complete: false },
        { name: "Development", complete: false }
    ],
    deadline: "2023-12-01"
};
```

**Result:**
```yaml
project:
  name: Website Redesign
  status: in-progress
  team:
    - Alice
    - Bob
    - Carol
  priority: 3
  tasks:
    - name: Research
      complete: true
    - name: Design
      complete: false
    - name: Development
      complete: false
  deadline: "2023-12-01"
```

## Feedback & Support

This is a **beta feature** - your feedback helps improve it:

- **Report issues**: Include template examples and variable data
- **Request features**: Suggest improvements for your workflow
- **Share success stories**: Help others learn effective patterns

The feature is designed to be safe and backward-compatible, but please test thoroughly with your specific use cases before relying on it for important workflows.

Commit message:

feat: support list prompts for template properties

docs/docs/TemplatePropertyTypes.md, after:

---
title: Template Property Types (Beta)
sidebar_position: 5
tags: [properties, templates, beta, front matter, obsidian]
---

# Template Property Types (Beta)

Native support for proper Obsidian property types in QuickAdd template front matter.

## Overview

QuickAdd now supports automatic property type formatting for template variables in front matter. Instead of converting everything to text, template variables become proper Obsidian property types: arrays become List properties, numbers become Number properties, booleans become Checkbox properties, and so on.

The goal is to make note creation easier and more intuitive. When we've reached that point, the option to disable this feature will be removed. While we're in beta, we appreciate your feedback and suggestions.

**Before:**
```yaml
authors: "John Doe, Jane Smith, Bob Wilson"  # Manual string formatting
```

**After:**
```yaml
authors:
  - John Doe
  - Jane Smith  
  - Bob Wilson
```

## Enabling the Feature

⚠️ **This is a beta feature** - enable it in settings:

1. Open **Settings → QuickAdd**
2. Toggle **"Format template variables as proper property types (Beta)"**
3. The feature is **disabled by default** for safety

## Basic Usage

### 1. Set Structured Data in Scripts

Instead of manually formatting data as strings, use native JavaScript types:

```javascript
// ✅ NEW: Use native data structures
QuickAdd.variables.authors = ["John Doe", "Jane Smith", "Bob Wilson"];
QuickAdd.variables.tags = ["research", "ai", "papers"];
QuickAdd.variables.metadata = {
    rating: 5,
    conference: "ICML",
    keywords: ["ML", "AI"]
};
QuickAdd.variables.published = true;
QuickAdd.variables.year = 2023;
QuickAdd.variables.notes = null;

// ❌ OLD: Manual string formatting (no longer needed)
// QuickAdd.variables.authors = "John Doe, Jane Smith, Bob Wilson";
```

### 2. Use in Templates

Your template syntax stays exactly the same:

```yaml
---
title: "{{VALUE:title}}"
authors: "{{VALUE:authors}}"
tags: "{{VALUE:tags}}"
metadata: "{{VALUE:metadata}}"
published: "{{VALUE:published}}"
year: "{{VALUE:year}}"
notes: "{{VALUE:notes}}"
---

# {{VALUE:title}}

Content here...
```

### 3. Get Perfect Property Types

The result is properly formatted as Obsidian property types:

```yaml
---
title: "My Research Paper"
authors:
  - John Doe
  - Jane Smith
  - Bob Wilson
tags:
  - research
  - ai
  - papers
metadata:
  rating: 5
  conference: ICML
  keywords:
    - ML
    - AI
published: true
year: 2023
notes: null
---

# My Research Paper

Content here...
```

## Supported Data Types

| JavaScript Type | Property Output | Example |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| **Array** | List property | `["a", "b"]` → `- a`<br />`- b` |
| **Empty Array** | Empty list | `[]` → `[]` |
| **Object** | Object property | `{key: "value"}` → `key: value` |
| **Empty Object** | Empty mapping | `{}` → `{}` |
| **Number** | Number literal | `42` → `42` |
| **Boolean** | Boolean literal | `true` → `true` |
| **Null** | Null literal | `null` → `null` |
| **String** | String (unchanged) | `"text"` → `text` |

### Prompting for List Values

When Template Property Types is enabled, you can gather list properties directly from QuickAdd prompts by adding an `@list` hint to the variable. QuickAdd will split common input formats (comma separated, newline lists, or `- bullet` lists) into a proper YAML list before the template is saved.

```yaml
---
tags: {{VALUE:tags@list}}
projects: {{VALUE:projects@list(delimiter=;)}}
---
```

- Prompting `tags@list` with `research, design, delivery` yields `tags: [research, design, delivery]`.
- Bullet-style input such as `- item one` on separate lines is normalized automatically.
- Use `@list(delimiter=;)` or `@list(csv)` to control how values are split when needed.

The rendered note will contain real list properties, and scripts can continue to seed `QuickAdd.variables.tags` with either arrays or delimiter separated strings depending on your workflow.

### Complex Nested Structures

The feature supports deeply nested data:

```javascript
QuickAdd.variables.paper = {
    title: "Advanced Research",
    authors: ["Alice", "Bob"],
    metadata: {
        year: 2023,
        conference: "ICML",
        tags: ["ML", "AI"],
        metrics: {
            pages: 12,
            citations: null
        }
    },
    reviewed: true
};
```

Results in:

```yaml
paper:
  title: Advanced Research
  authors:
    - Alice
    - Bob
  metadata:
    year: 2023
    conference: ICML
    tags:
      - ML
      - AI
    metrics:
      pages: 12
      citations: null
  reviewed: true
```

## Real-World Examples

### Academic Papers

**Script:**
```javascript
// From Zotero or other source
const paper = {
    title: "Attention Is All You Need",
    authors: ["Ashish Vaswani", "Noam Shazeer", "Niki Parmar"],
    year: 2017,
    venue: "NIPS",
    keywords: ["attention", "transformer", "neural networks"],
    metrics: {
        citations: 50000,
        pages: [3000, 3010]
    }
};

Object.assign(QuickAdd.variables, paper);
```

**Template:**
```yaml
---
title: "{{VALUE:title}}"
authors: "{{VALUE:authors}}"
year: "{{VALUE:year}}"
venue: "{{VALUE:venue}}"
keywords: "{{VALUE:keywords}}"
metrics: "{{VALUE:metrics}}"
---

# {{VALUE:title}}

## Summary
Paper by {{VALUE:authors}} published in {{VALUE:venue}} ({{VALUE:year}}).
```

**Output:**
```yaml
---
title: Attention Is All You Need
authors:
  - Ashish Vaswani
  - Noam Shazeer
  - Niki Parmar
year: 2017
venue: NIPS
keywords:
  - attention
  - transformer
  - neural networks
metrics:
  citations: 50000
  pages:
    - 3000
    - 3010
---

# Attention Is All You Need

## Summary
Paper by Ashish Vaswani,Noam Shazeer,Niki Parmar published in NIPS (2017).
```

### Project Management

**Script:**
```javascript
QuickAdd.variables.project = {
    name: "Website Redesign",
    status: "in-progress",
    team: ["Alice", "Bob", "Carol"],
    priority: 3,
    tasks: [
        { name: "Research", complete: true },
        { name: "Design", complete: false },
        { name: "Development", complete: false }
    ],
    deadline: "2023-12-01"
};
```

**Result:**
```yaml
project:
  name: Website Redesign
  status: in-progress
  team:
    - Alice
    - Bob
    - Carol
  priority: 3
  tasks:
    - name: Research
      complete: true
    - name: Design
      complete: false
    - name: Development
      complete: false
  deadline: "2023-12-01"
```

## Feedback & Support

This is a **beta feature** - your feedback helps improve it:

- **Report issues**: Include template examples and variable data
- **Request features**: Suggest improvements for your workflow
- **Share success stories**: Help others learn effective patterns

The feature is designed to be safe and backward-compatible, but please test thoroughly with your specific use cases before relying on it for important workflows.
