README.md, before:

# QuickAdd
Quickly add new pages or content to your vault.
### Demo
![zApIWkHrKP](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/121762835-bb8b2e80-cb38-11eb-8ef6-b65700526caf.gif)

## Installation
**This plugin is in the community plugin browser in Obsidian**. You can search for it and install it there .

You can also do a [manual installation](docs/ManualInstallation.md).

## What's new?
### 0.3.3
- Fix 'undefined' error when cancelling template choices.
- Insert after in captures now allow format syntax for dynamic insertion.
- Appending to active file now replaces the selected text instead of inserting after it.

### 0.3.0 - 0.3.1
- Link suggestion in the input prompt now uses your Obsidian link settings by default.
- Add error handling for using ``{{MACRO}}`` to execute a macro that does not exist.
- Input prompt can now also suggest unresolved links.
- Capped input prompt at 50 suggestions for performance in larger vaults.
- You can now offset dates with ``{{DATE+3}}`` or ``{{DATE:<format>+3}}``. `+3` gives you the date in three days, while `+-3` gives you the date three days ago.
- Added a new API feature which allows you to execute choices from within user scripts. These keep the current variables for the execution, so you can 'transfer' variables.
- (0.3.1 HOTFIX) Fix choice finding algorithm.

### 0.2.14 - 0.2.16
- Add 'Insert at the end of section' feature to Captures.
- Revamped the Capture & Template format suggesters. They're now more like smart-autocompleters.
- Template choices now also use the Obsidian method for creating links to files.

### 0.2.13
- Add error logging for when no macro is in the choice.
- Add 'Add' buttons to Macro Builder.
- Multi choices can now have commands & hotkeys.
- Attempted to address #39 - capture not creating template.
- Suggest files from both core templates folder and templater templates folder when creating a Template choice.
- Fix bug where, if there is an emoji in the folder name, the file sometimes doesn't get created
- Update the API. The suggester can now take a map function for the `displayItems`, which will be executed on the `actualItems`. There is also a utility module now, which currently allows you to set or get your clipboard.

### 0.2.11 - 0.2.12
- Implement Quick Commands - ironically, starting with a Wait command. With this command, you can add a delay to your macros. Useful for commands that may take a while to finish.
- Fix a bug where the command sequence did not save.
- Fix bug where 'Create file if it doesn't exist' did not work as intended when no template was given.
- Updated the documentation with new examples and changes to settings.
- Remove (missed) `console.log`.
- If formatted content is empty, don't add anything.
- Capture: Don't create file if setting is disabled.

## Getting started
The first thing you'll want to do is add a new choice. A choice can be one of four types.
- [Template Choice](docs/Choices/TemplateChoice.md) - A powerful way to insert templates into your vault.
- [Capture Choice](docs/Choices/CaptureChoice.md) - Quick capture anything, anywhere.
- [Macro Choice](docs/Choices/MacroChoice.md) - Macros to augment your workflow. Do more, faster.
- [Multi Choice](docs/Choices/MultiChoice.md) - Organize your choices in folders.

In your choices, you can use [format syntax](docs/FormatSyntax.md), which is similar to the Obsidian template syntax.

You could, for example, use ``{{DATE}}`` to get the current date.

## I'm ready to _augment my workflow_ 🚀
That's the spirit. What do you want to do?

### I want to...
#### Be inspired
Take a look at some examples...
- [Capture: Add Journal Entry](docs/Examples/Capture_AddJournalEntry.md)
- [Macro: Log book to daily journal](docs/Examples/Macro_LogBookToDailyJournal.md)
- [Template: Add an Inbox Item](docs/Examples/Template_AddAnInboxItem.md)
- [Macro: Move all notes with a tag to a certain folder](docs/Examples/Macro_MoveNotesWithATagToAFolder.md)
- [Template: Automatically create a new book note with notes & highlights from Readwise](docs/Examples/Template_AutomaticBookNotesFromReadwise.md)
- [Capture: Add a task to a Kanban board](docs/Examples/Capture_AddTaskToKanbanBoard.md)
- [Macro: Easily change properties in your daily note (requires MetaEdit)](docs/Examples/Macro_ChangePropertyInDailyNotes.md)
- [Capture: Fetch tasks from Todoist and capture to a file](docs/Examples/Capture_FetchTasksFromTodoist.md)

#### Create powerful scripts and macros to automate my workflow
Take a look at the [QuickAdd API](docs/QuickAddAPI.md), [format syntax](docs/FormatSyntax.md), and [macros](docs/Choices/MacroChoice.md).

#### Use QuickAdd even when Obsidian is minimized / in the background
You got it. Take a look at [this AutoHotKey script](docs/AHK_OpenQuickAddFromDesktop.md).

Commit message:

When creating a new file with a template, and the file already exists, you will be asked what you want to do.

README.md, after:

# QuickAdd
Quickly add new pages or content to your vault.
### Demo
![zApIWkHrKP](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/121762835-bb8b2e80-cb38-11eb-8ef6-b65700526caf.gif)

## Installation
**This plugin is in the community plugin browser in Obsidian**. You can search for it and install it there .

You can also do a [manual installation](docs/ManualInstallation.md).

## What's new?
### 0.3.4
- When creating a new file with a template, and the file already exists, you will be asked what you want to do. You can append the template to the top, bottom, overwrite the file with the template, or do nothing.

### 0.3.3
- Fix 'undefined' error when cancelling template choices.
- Insert after in captures now allow format syntax for dynamic insertion.
- Appending to active file now replaces the selected text instead of inserting after it.

### 0.3.0 - 0.3.1
- Link suggestion in the input prompt now uses your Obsidian link settings by default.
- Add error handling for using ``{{MACRO}}`` to execute a macro that does not exist.
- Input prompt can now also suggest unresolved links.
- Capped input prompt at 50 suggestions for performance in larger vaults.
- You can now offset dates with ``{{DATE+3}}`` or ``{{DATE:<format>+3}}``. `+3` gives you the date in three days, while `+-3` gives you the date three days ago.
- Added a new API feature which allows you to execute choices from within user scripts. These keep the current variables for the execution, so you can 'transfer' variables.
- (0.3.1 HOTFIX) Fix choice finding algorithm.

### 0.2.14 - 0.2.16
- Add 'Insert at the end of section' feature to Captures.
- Revamped the Capture & Template format suggesters. They're now more like smart-autocompleters.
- Template choices now also use the Obsidian method for creating links to files.

### 0.2.13
- Add error logging for when no macro is in the choice.
- Add 'Add' buttons to Macro Builder.
- Multi choices can now have commands & hotkeys.
- Attempted to address #39 - capture not creating template.
- Suggest files from both core templates folder and templater templates folder when creating a Template choice.
- Fix bug where, if there is an emoji in the folder name, the file sometimes doesn't get created
- Update the API. The suggester can now take a map function for the `displayItems`, which will be executed on the `actualItems`. There is also a utility module now, which currently allows you to set or get your clipboard.

### 0.2.11 - 0.2.12
- Implement Quick Commands - ironically, starting with a Wait command. With this command, you can add a delay to your macros. Useful for commands that may take a while to finish.
- Fix a bug where the command sequence did not save.
- Fix bug where 'Create file if it doesn't exist' did not work as intended when no template was given.
- Updated the documentation with new examples and changes to settings.
- Remove (missed) `console.log`.
- If formatted content is empty, don't add anything.
- Capture: Don't create file if setting is disabled.

## Getting started
The first thing you'll want to do is add a new choice. A choice can be one of four types.
- [Template Choice](docs/Choices/TemplateChoice.md) - A powerful way to insert templates into your vault.
- [Capture Choice](docs/Choices/CaptureChoice.md) - Quick capture anything, anywhere.
- [Macro Choice](docs/Choices/MacroChoice.md) - Macros to augment your workflow. Do more, faster.
- [Multi Choice](docs/Choices/MultiChoice.md) - Organize your choices in folders.

In your choices, you can use [format syntax](docs/FormatSyntax.md), which is similar to the Obsidian template syntax.

You could, for example, use ``{{DATE}}`` to get the current date.

## I'm ready to _augment my workflow_ 🚀
That's the spirit. What do you want to do?

### I want to...
#### Be inspired
Take a look at some examples...
- [Capture: Add Journal Entry](docs/Examples/Capture_AddJournalEntry.md)
- [Macro: Log book to daily journal](docs/Examples/Macro_LogBookToDailyJournal.md)
- [Template: Add an Inbox Item](docs/Examples/Template_AddAnInboxItem.md)
- [Macro: Move all notes with a tag to a certain folder](docs/Examples/Macro_MoveNotesWithATagToAFolder.md)
- [Template: Automatically create a new book note with notes & highlights from Readwise](docs/Examples/Template_AutomaticBookNotesFromReadwise.md)
- [Capture: Add a task to a Kanban board](docs/Examples/Capture_AddTaskToKanbanBoard.md)
- [Macro: Easily change properties in your daily note (requires MetaEdit)](docs/Examples/Macro_ChangePropertyInDailyNotes.md)
- [Capture: Fetch tasks from Todoist and capture to a file](docs/Examples/Capture_FetchTasksFromTodoist.md)

#### Create powerful scripts and macros to automate my workflow
Take a look at the [QuickAdd API](docs/QuickAddAPI.md), [format syntax](docs/FormatSyntax.md), and [macros](docs/Choices/MacroChoice.md).

#### Use QuickAdd even when Obsidian is minimized / in the background
You got it. Take a look at [this AutoHotKey script](docs/AHK_OpenQuickAddFromDesktop.md).
