docs/docs/Choices/CaptureChoice.md, before:

---
title: Capture
---

Allows to quickly capture your input and save it from anywhere in Obsidian, without leaving your current window setup e.g.

-   Add messages to your work log
-   Save interesting links for later reading and watching
-   Individually timed notes in Daily notes file

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/123451366-e025e280-d5dd-11eb-81b6-c21f3ad1823d.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/123451469-e61bc380-d5dd-11eb-80d1-7667427656f3.png)

## Capture To

_Capture To_ is the name of the file you are capturing to.
You can choose to either enable _Capture to active file_, or you can enter a file name in the _File Name_ input field.

This field also supports the [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md), which allows you to use dynamic file names.
I have one for my daily journal with the name `bins/daily/{{DATE:gggg-MM-DD - ddd MMM D}}.md`.
This automatically finds the file for the day, and whatever I enter will be captured to it.

### Capturing to folders

You can also type a **folder name** into the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file in the folder you'd like to capture to.
This also supports the [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md). You can even write a filename in the suggester that opens, and it will create the file for you - assuming you have the _Create file if it doesn't exist_ setting enabled.

For example, you might have a folder called `CRM/people`. In this folder, you have a note for the people in your life. You can type `CRM/people` in the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to. You can then type `John Doe` in the suggester, and QuickAdd will create a file called `John Doe.md` in the `CRM/people` folder.

You could also write nothing - or `/` - in the _Capture To_ field. This will open the suggester with all of your files in it, and you can select or type the name of the file you want to capture to.
Paths are vault-relative. A leading `/` is ignored (except a lone `/`, which opens the file picker for the whole vault).

Capturing to a folder will show all files in that folder. This means that files in nested folders will also appear.

### Capturing to tags

Similarly, you can type a **tag name** in the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to, assuming the file has the tag you specify.

If you have a tag called `#people`, and you type `#people` in the _Capture To_ field, QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to, assuming the file has the `#people` tag.

## Capture Options

-   _Create file if it doesn't exist_ will do as the name implies - you can also create the file from a template, if you specify the template (the input box will appear below the setting).
-   _Task_ will format your captured text as a task.
-   _Use editor selection as default value_ controls whether the current editor selection is used as `{{VALUE}}`. Choose **Follow global setting**, **Use selection**, or **Ignore selection** (global default lives in Settings > Input). This does not affect `{{SELECTED}}`.
-   _Write to bottom of file_ will put whatever you enter at the bottom of the file.
-   _Append link_ will append a link to the file you have open in the file you're capturing to. You can choose between three modes:
    -   **Enabled (requires active file)** – keeps the legacy behavior and throws an error if no note is focused
    -   **Enabled (skip if no active file)** – inserts the link when possible and silently drops `{{LINKCURRENT}}` if nothing is open
    -   **Disabled** – never append a link

    When either enabled mode is selected, you can choose where the link is placed:
    -   **Replace selection** - Replaces any selected text with the link (default)
    -   **After selection** - Preserves selected text and places the link after it
    -   **End of line** - Places the link at the end of the current line
    -   **New line** - Places the link on a new line below the cursor

## Insert after

Insert After will allow you to insert the text after some line with the specified text.

With Insert After, you can also enable `Insert at end of section` and `Consider subsections`.
You can see an explanation of these below.

I use this in my daily journal capture, where I insert after the heading line `## What did I do today?`.

It's also possible to use `Create line if not found`, which will create the line if it doesn't exist. This is useful if you want to insert after a line that might not exist in the file you're capturing to.
This setting can place the line at the start or end of the file, or at your current cursor position.

### Consider subsections -option

#### `Consider subsections` disabled

Behavior with `Insert after` & `Insert at end`:

```markdown
## 1. First heading

**Insert after** comes here.

-   content 1
-   content 2
-   content 3
    **Insert at end** comes here.

### 1.1. Nested heading 1

Content

## 2. Another heading

Content
```

#### `Consider subsections` enabled

Behavior with `Insert after` & `Insert at end`:

```markdown
## 1. First heading

**Insert after** comes here

-   content 1
-   content 2
-   content 3

### 1.1. Nested heading 1

Content
**Insert at end** comes here. Captures to after this, as it's considered part of the "1. First heading" section.

## 2. Another heading

Content
```

## Capture Format

Capture format lets you specify the exact format that you want what you're capturing to be inserted as.
You can do practically anything here. Think of it as a mini template.

If you do not enable this, QuickAdd will default to `{{VALUE}}`, which will insert whatever you enter in the prompt, or (if selection-as-value is enabled) the current editor selection.

You can use [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md) here, which allows you to use dynamic values in your capture format.

In my journal capture, I have it set to `- {{DATE:HH:mm}} {{VALUE}}`. This inserts a bullet point with the time in hour:minute format, followed by whatever I entered in the prompt.

Commit message:

fix: preserve blank lines for insert after (#1054)

docs/docs/Choices/CaptureChoice.md, after:

---
title: Capture
---

Allows to quickly capture your input and save it from anywhere in Obsidian, without leaving your current window setup e.g.

-   Add messages to your work log
-   Save interesting links for later reading and watching
-   Individually timed notes in Daily notes file

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/123451366-e025e280-d5dd-11eb-81b6-c21f3ad1823d.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29108628/123451469-e61bc380-d5dd-11eb-80d1-7667427656f3.png)

## Capture To

_Capture To_ is the name of the file you are capturing to.
You can choose to either enable _Capture to active file_, or you can enter a file name in the _File Name_ input field.

This field also supports the [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md), which allows you to use dynamic file names.
I have one for my daily journal with the name `bins/daily/{{DATE:gggg-MM-DD - ddd MMM D}}.md`.
This automatically finds the file for the day, and whatever I enter will be captured to it.

### Capturing to folders

You can also type a **folder name** into the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file in the folder you'd like to capture to.
This also supports the [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md). You can even write a filename in the suggester that opens, and it will create the file for you - assuming you have the _Create file if it doesn't exist_ setting enabled.

For example, you might have a folder called `CRM/people`. In this folder, you have a note for the people in your life. You can type `CRM/people` in the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to. You can then type `John Doe` in the suggester, and QuickAdd will create a file called `John Doe.md` in the `CRM/people` folder.

You could also write nothing - or `/` - in the _Capture To_ field. This will open the suggester with all of your files in it, and you can select or type the name of the file you want to capture to.
Paths are vault-relative. A leading `/` is ignored (except a lone `/`, which opens the file picker for the whole vault).

Capturing to a folder will show all files in that folder. This means that files in nested folders will also appear.

### Capturing to tags

Similarly, you can type a **tag name** in the _Capture To_ field, and QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to, assuming the file has the tag you specify.

If you have a tag called `#people`, and you type `#people` in the _Capture To_ field, QuickAdd will ask you which file to capture to, assuming the file has the `#people` tag.

## Capture Options

-   _Create file if it doesn't exist_ will do as the name implies - you can also create the file from a template, if you specify the template (the input box will appear below the setting).
-   _Task_ will format your captured text as a task.
-   _Use editor selection as default value_ controls whether the current editor selection is used as `{{VALUE}}`. Choose **Follow global setting**, **Use selection**, or **Ignore selection** (global default lives in Settings > Input). This does not affect `{{SELECTED}}`.
-   _Write to bottom of file_ will put whatever you enter at the bottom of the file.
-   _Append link_ will append a link to the file you have open in the file you're capturing to. You can choose between three modes:
    -   **Enabled (requires active file)** – keeps the legacy behavior and throws an error if no note is focused
    -   **Enabled (skip if no active file)** – inserts the link when possible and silently drops `{{LINKCURRENT}}` if nothing is open
    -   **Disabled** – never append a link

    When either enabled mode is selected, you can choose where the link is placed:
    -   **Replace selection** - Replaces any selected text with the link (default)
    -   **After selection** - Preserves selected text and places the link after it
    -   **End of line** - Places the link at the end of the current line
    -   **New line** - Places the link on a new line below the cursor

## Insert after

Insert After will allow you to insert the text after some line with the specified text.
If the matched line is followed by one or more blank lines (including whitespace-only
lines), QuickAdd inserts after those blank lines to preserve spacing under headings.

Example (Insert After `# H` with content `X`):

```markdown
# H

X
A
```

With Insert After, you can also enable `Insert at end of section` and `Consider subsections`.
You can see an explanation of these below.

I use this in my daily journal capture, where I insert after the heading line `## What did I do today?`.

It's also possible to use `Create line if not found`, which will create the line if it doesn't exist. This is useful if you want to insert after a line that might not exist in the file you're capturing to.
This setting can place the line at the start or end of the file, or at your current cursor position.

### Consider subsections -option

#### `Consider subsections` disabled

Behavior with `Insert after` & `Insert at end`:

```markdown
## 1. First heading

**Insert after** comes here.

-   content 1
-   content 2
-   content 3
    **Insert at end** comes here.

### 1.1. Nested heading 1

Content

## 2. Another heading

Content
```

#### `Consider subsections` enabled

Behavior with `Insert after` & `Insert at end`:

```markdown
## 1. First heading

**Insert after** comes here

-   content 1
-   content 2
-   content 3

### 1.1. Nested heading 1

Content
**Insert at end** comes here. Captures to after this, as it's considered part of the "1. First heading" section.

## 2. Another heading

Content
```

## Capture Format

Capture format lets you specify the exact format that you want what you're capturing to be inserted as.
You can do practically anything here. Think of it as a mini template.

If you do not enable this, QuickAdd will default to `{{VALUE}}`, which will insert whatever you enter in the prompt, or (if selection-as-value is enabled) the current editor selection.

You can use [format syntax](/FormatSyntax.md) here, which allows you to use dynamic values in your capture format.

In my journal capture, I have it set to `- {{DATE:HH:mm}} {{VALUE}}`. This inserts a bullet point with the time in hour:minute format, followed by whatever I entered in the prompt.
