docs/QuickAddAPI.md, before:

# QuickAdd API
### `inputPrompt(header: string, placeholder?: string, value?: string): string`
Opens a prompt that asks for an input. Returns a string with the input.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `yesNoPrompt: (header: string, text?: string): boolean`
Opens a prompt asking for confirmation. Returns `true` or `false` based on answer.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `suggester: (displayItems: string[] | ((value: string, index?: number, arr?: string[]) => string[]), actualItems: string[])`
Opens a suggester. Displays the `displayItems`, but you map these the other values with `actualItems`.

The ``displayItems`` can either be an array of strings, or a map function that will be executed on the actual items.

This means that the following syntax is possible:
````js
const pickedFile = await params.quickAddApi.suggester(
    (file) => file.basename,
    params.app.vault.getMarkdownFiles()
);
````

Returns the selected value.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `checkboxPrompt: (items: string[], selectedItems: string[])`
Opens a checkbox prompt with the items given. Items in the `selectedItems` array will be selected by default.

Returns an array of the selected items.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### ``executeChoice(choiceName: string)``
Executes choice with the given name.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

## Utility module
### ``getClipboard()``
Returns the contents of your clipboard.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

Syntax: `await quickAddApi.utility.getClipboard();`

### ``setClipboard(text: string)``
Sets the contents of your clipboard to the given input.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

Syntax: `await quickAddApi.utility.setClipboard();`

Commit message:

Can now pass variables to `executeChoice`
And update documentation accordingly

docs/QuickAddAPI.md, after:

# QuickAdd API
### `inputPrompt(header: string, placeholder?: string, value?: string): string`
Opens a prompt that asks for an input. Returns a string with the input.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `yesNoPrompt: (header: string, text?: string): boolean`
Opens a prompt asking for confirmation. Returns `true` or `false` based on answer.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `suggester: (displayItems: string[] | ((value: string, index?: number, arr?: string[]) => string[]), actualItems: string[])`
Opens a suggester. Displays the `displayItems`, but you map these the other values with `actualItems`.

The ``displayItems`` can either be an array of strings, or a map function that will be executed on the actual items.

This means that the following syntax is possible:
````js
const pickedFile = await params.quickAddApi.suggester(
    (file) => file.basename,
    params.app.vault.getMarkdownFiles()
);
````

Returns the selected value.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### `checkboxPrompt: (items: string[], selectedItems: string[])`
Opens a checkbox prompt with the items given. Items in the `selectedItems` array will be selected by default.

Returns an array of the selected items.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

### ``executeChoice(choiceName: string, variables?: {[key: string]: any})``
Executes choice with the given name.

You can also pass an optional parameter, ``variables``.

The object will be read as variables for the choice to be executed. These variables do _not_ affect the currently set variables.
You should view the execution as a new branch, separate from the one executing the macro.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

## Utility module
### ``getClipboard()``
Returns the contents of your clipboard.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

Syntax: `await quickAddApi.utility.getClipboard();`

### ``setClipboard(text: string)``
Sets the contents of your clipboard to the given input.

This function is asynchronous. You should ``await`` it.

Syntax: `await quickAddApi.utility.setClipboard();`
